
installing software needed
1. go to https://www.visualstudio.com/en-us/products/visual-studio-community-vs.aspx and click on the 
Download Community 2015 button, after it downloads go ahead and run it
2. Leave the defaults it chooses for you and just keep clicking next and let it install (install takes 
a long time b/c it will be downloading all the files it needs during installation)
3. After you install it may ask you to reboot, go ahead and restart your computer
4. You should have something called Visual Studio 2015 installed now, start it
5. It will ask you to sign in, just click the link toward the bottom that says Not Now
6. It will then ask you to select your theme, choose whatever theme you like and continue
7. Visual studio will take some time to open the first time, you'll see a message that tells you it
could take a few minutes while it's preparing for first use
8. Once it's done and opens, it will open to a start Page,  that's as far as you need to go, you can now close it
if you bring a laptop, show up about 15-20 mins early so we can make sure your laptop is good to go



html stands for hypertext markup language, came out in 1990. Think of it as "hidden" code
that helps the programmer tell the web browser what and how to display things.

You can build simple html pages with nothing but notepad but it's easier to use
software tools called IDE (Integrated Development Environment), you'll see why when
we start using it.


When you are coding html you are adding certain "tags" that give the browser instructions
for how to display text or images. You're going to see these in use in a moment but some example tags 
are the following  <html></html>  <div></div>  


Tags are also referred to as elements. You can easily tell
what are tags versus text in a html page by looking for the brackets (< >)

Almost every tag has a begin tag and a closing tag (there are a few 
exceptions and we'll see those as we go)



a html page consists for 4 primary tags
html, head, title and body
<!DOCTYPE> this is really not a tag, it tells the browser what version of html you are using
html- tells the browser that this file contains html
head- contains the title of the html document and references to javascript
and css files
title - what you put for the title appears in the browser (show it)
body- main content, this is where you'll put everything you are wanting to show

Nesting- you'll see alot of this with html, it has a nesting structure

h1-h6- headline tags, from small to large
hr- line across the page, doesn't need closing tag
p  - start a new paragraph
br - line break (doesn't need a closing tag)

ul-  unordered list
ol- ordered list
li -  list item

a -  anchor tag or a link. You'll see attributes which are inside the
opening tag and they give more specific instructions to the browser. 
href is the url address that you want the browser to go to when this
link is clicked

img-  src, alt

html comments

span
div


input (text, checkbox)
textarea
button
select
table, thead,th,tbody,tr
style

css
font-weight
font-size
color
background-color
margin
padding
border
border-radius
max-width
width

fun css
transitions
animations

javascript- real coding, what we just did may not be considered
real computer programmer. We do that stuff here as programmers
but many places might have a team of web design specialists
that use fancy software tools to build the htmls and css
Programmers will add functionality to the page
by coding javascript to make the web page more 
interactive or dynamic

console.log
variables- places in memory that store information
concatentation
strings- toUpperCase
indexOf
arrays- length, index
for loop
if statement
functions
document.getElementById



links 
wc3 reference
pluralsight
sql server express (free sql server database software)
visual studio community (free ide that you used today)